=head1 NAME

paargs - wrapper for paexec similar to xargs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<paargs> I<[OPTIONS]> <command> <args>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<paargs> is a simple wrapper over B<paexec> that simplifies
use of B<paexec>'s capalities. The use of B<paargs> is actually very
similar to B<xargs>. B<paargs> runs B<paexec>
with the following options enabled by default:

=over 4

=item *

I<-C> -- for specifying I<command> as free arguments,

=item *

I<-x> -- for being B<xargs>-like,

=item *

I<-l> -- 0-based task number is included to the output of B<paargs>, this
allows to reorder the sliced output,

=item *

I<-e> -- for the same purposes as I<-l>,

=item *

I<-g> -- this flag allows analysis of I<command>'s exit status,

=item *

I<-md=> -- disables task delimiter for I<-g> mode enabled by default,
as a result the whole line given on input is considered as a task.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h>

Display this help.

=item B<-V>

Display version.

=item B<-P> I<nodes>

Same as I<-n> in B<paexec>.

=item B<-t> I<transport>

Passed directly to B<paexec>.

=item B<-c> I<command>

Command with its arguments. By default, free arguments
are used for setting command and its arguments.

=item B<-I> I<replstr>

Execute command for each task, replacing one
or more occurrences of I<replstr> with the entire task.

=item B<-X>

Passed directly to B<paexec>.

=item B<-f>

Flushes stdout after recieving an end-of-task line.

=item B<-0>

Passed directly to B<paexec>.

=item B<-Z> I<timeout>

Passed directly to B<paexec>.

=item B<-z>

Passed directly to B<paexec>.

=item B<-m> I<arg>

Passed directly to B<paexec>.

=item B<-d>

Turn on a debugging mode (for debugging purposes only)

=back

=head1 BUGS/FEEDBACK

Please send any comments, questions, bug reports etc. to me by e-mail
or (even better) register them at sourceforge project home.  Feature
requests are also welcomed.

=head1 HOME

L<http://sourceforge.net/projects/paexec>

=head1 SEE ALSO
L<paexec(1)>
