=head1 NAME

paexec_reorder - reorder sliced output of "paexec -l"

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<paexec_reorder> [I<OPTIONS>] [I<files...>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<paexec> with -l option produces a sliced output where results of
different tasks are intermixed. The intent of B<paexec_reorder> is to
produce ordered output where results for all tasks follow each other
without intermixing. It is strongly recomended to send output of
"paexec -le" or paexec -gle" to the input of B<paexec_reorder>. Otherwise
more memory or disk space for temporary files will be required.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 6

=item B<-h>

Display help information.

=item B<-M> I<method>

If I<method> is I<m>, result is reordered in memory, this is the default.
If it is I<f>, temporary files are used for reordering. If I<s>, B<sort(1)>
command is used.

=item B<-l>

Prepand output line with the task number.

=item B<-g>

By default output of "paexec -le" is expected on input. With I<-g>
option, output of "paexec -gle" is expected. In this case B<paexec_reorder>
will react on "fatal" B<paexec's> keyword.

=item B<-S>

Remove leading space character.

=item B<-m> s=I<success>

=item B<-m> f=I<failure>

=item B<-m> F=I<fatal>

=item B<-m> F=I<eot>

Set alternative string
for 'success', 'failure', 'fatal' and '' (end of task).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 6

 paexec -t '/usr/bin/ssh -x' -n 'host1 host2 host3' \
        -l -c ~/bin/complex_task | paexec_reorder

 paexec -gEI -lr -n 'host1 host2 host3' \
   -c command -t /usr/bin/rsh < tasks.txt | paexec_reorder -lgS -Mf

 For other examples, see examples/ directory

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 6

=item I<TMPDIR>

I<tempnam(3)> is used for creating temporary directory.
See the appropriate man page.

=back

=head1 BUGS/FEEDBACK

Please send any comments, questions, bug reports etc. to me by e-mail
or (even better) register them at sourceforge project home.  Feature
requests are also welcomed.

=head1 HOME

L<http://sourceforge.net/projects/paexec>

=head1 SEE ALSO
L<paexec(1)>
L<tempnam(3)>
